VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 25
When attending a social event where alcohol will be 
consumed, plan ahead for a sober ride home by using 
alternative transportation or having a sober driver.  
Combining alcohol with other drugs usually multiplies the 
effects of both and can have a disastrous effect on your  
ability to drive. One drink taken when you are on another 
drug – even an aspirin, or allergy or cold medicine – could 
have the same effect on your driving ability as drinking several 
alcoholic beverages.
Almost any drug can reduce your ability to drive safely. 
It’s not just illegal drugs that cause problems. Many over-the-
counter medications and prescription drugs for headaches, 
hay fever, colds, allergies or nervous conditions can cause 
drowsiness and dizziness. This includes syrups, drops, sprays, 
pills and tablets. They often affect driver alertness and slow 
reaction time. Although the possession of marijuana and 
marijuana products (over the age of 21) is legal, driving 
under the influence of marijuana is still illegal. Smoking or 
consuming cannabis will affect how you drive.
Read the label before taking any drug or medicine. Look for 
warnings about side effects. If you’re uncertain about the 
effects of a drug, ask your pharmacist or doctor for advice. 
Remember that, while the effects may vary among users, no 
drug is harmless. 
Traffic Crashes
If you are involved in a traffic crash, you must:
  stop at the scene of the crash or as close to the scene 
as possible without blocking traffic. Drivers must move 
vehicles from the road immediately if the vehicles are 
able to be moved, no one is injured and the driver is 
capable of safely doing so.
  be careful when exiting your vehicle. Keep your vehicle 
between you and moving traffic if possible.
  give any help you can if someone is injured. Do not 
attempt to move an injured person from a wrecked 
vehicle unless you have the necessary medical training 
or there is an immediate danger such as fire.
  report the crash to the police as quickly as possible. 
Motor vehicle crashes involving property damage, 
personal injury or death must be reported to the police.
  exchange information with other people involved 
in the crash as soon as possible. Be sure to get the 
following information: 
  name, address and driver’s license number of 
other drivers
  license plate numbers of other vehicles
  name and address of anyone who was injured
  name and address of each witness
  name, address and insurance policy number of 
other vehicle owners
  notify your insurance company immediately.  
Law enforcement officers are required to forward a written 
crash report to DMV when a traffic crash results in injury or 
the death of any person or total property damage is in excess 
of $3,000. All crash information will be recorded on the DMV 
records of each driver involved in the crash. 
You must make a reasonable effort to find the owner of an 
unattended vehicle or other property damaged in a crash. 
If you cannot locate anyone, leave a note that can be found 
easily at the scene of the crash. Include your name, telephone 
number, the date and time of the crash, and a description 
of the damage. You must also report the crash to the police 
within 24 hours.
Deer/Large Animal Hazards
Tens of thousands of crashes with deer, elk, and bears take 
place in Virginia each year, resulting in fatalities, injuries and 
costly vehicle damage. To avoid hitting a deer or other large 
animal:
  Be alert at dusk and dawn especially in the fall.  
  Slow down if you see a large animal near or crossing the 
road. Large animals frequently travel in groups; there 
are likely others nearby.  
  Use the horn to scare the animal away.
  If a collision with a deer or other animal is unavoidable, 
do not swerve. Brake firmly, stay in your lane, and come 
to a controlled stop.  
If you hit a large animal, report it to law enforcement.