VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 13
Bicycle boxes are painted on the road at intersections. They 
contain a white bicycle symbol. Bike boxes and the bike 
lanes approaching and leaving the box may be painted green. 
Drivers must stop for a red traffic signal behind all bicycle 
boxes, not inside the box. Bicycle riders will move into the 
box in front of drivers at the intersection. Right turns on red 
are not allowed at these intersections. If turning right on a 
green light, drivers must signal and yield to bicycles on the 
right. 
Bus-only lanes are indicated  
by BUS ONLY markings and/or  
red-colored pavement.
High Occupancy Vehicles (HOV) 
lanes are marked on highways by 
a diamond shape in the center of 
the lane. HOV lanes may also be 
special lanes separated by a barrier 
or solid double white lines. During 
heavy traffic periods, HOV 
lanes are reserved for 
buses, vanpools, carpools, 
other high occupancy 
vehicles, motorcycles, and 
certain clean special fuel 
vehicles. Road signs show 
the minimum number of 
passengers a vehicle must 
carry (excluding motorcycles 
and clean fuel vehicles) to 
use the HOV lanes and 
the times that HOV restrictions are in effect. If the lanes are 
separated by a barrier, they are reversible. This means that 
during certain times of the day, traffic flows one way. During 
other times of the day, traffic flows in the opposite direction. 
A diamond-shaped marking may also indicate that the lane is 
reserved for use as a bus lane.
Toll Plazas and Lanes
All toll facilities in Virginia accept payment using E-ZPass toll 
transponders. Transponders allow drivers to pay electronically 
without having to stop to pay with cash. If you have a 
transponder, as you approach a toll plaza look for and follow 
signs with the purple E-ZPass logo. If you do not have a 
transponder, as you approach a toll plaza, look for and follow 
signs for cash only lanes. 
Slow down as you approach toll plazas. Be extra cautious as 
you approach, enter, and depart toll plazas. There may be 
other drivers changing lanes and/or toll employees crossing 
the lanes. 
Some toll roads have high speed lanes reserved for vehicles 
with E-ZPass transponders. Do not enter those lanes unless 
you have a transponder. However, if you do enter one of those 
lanes by mistake, do not stop. Stopping is unsafe and could 
cause a rear-end crash. Cameras will photograph the car’s 
license plate number and the registered vehicle’s owner will be 
billed for the toll.
A painted curb means that you must follow special rules to 
park there. Check with the locality for specific meanings. 
Generally, the colors on the curb mean: 
White — Stop only long enough to pick up or drop 
off passengers.
Yellow — Stop only long enough to load or unload.  
Stay with your car.
 
Red — Do not stop, stand or park. 
 