Backing
The most common mistake that drivers make when backing 
up is failing to look both ways behind them. Mirrors do not 
give you a full view. To see as much as possible, turn your 
body and head to the right and look out through the rear 
window. Back up slowly and check for pedestrians and 
approaching traffic by glancing quickly to either side.
Parking
When parking on a public road, move as far from traffic as 
possible. If you park on a shoulder, pull over as far on the 
shoulder as possible. If you park next to a curb, pull close to 
it. You may not park more than one foot from the curb. On a 
two-way street, park on the right side of the road. On a  
one-way road, park on either side.  
Parking on a hill 
With a curb: Turn  
the front wheels 
of your vehicle to 
prevent it from 
rolling into the 
street. 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Without a curb: 
Turn the front wheels 
so that if the vehicle 
rolls, the rear of the 
vehicle will roll away 
from traffic.  
22 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 3: Safe Driving
Be aware of other traffic when exiting your vehicle. Look 
for other cars, bicyclists, and pedestrians before opening the 
door. 
You may not park:
  beside another parked vehicle (double parking)
  on crosswalks or sidewalks
  in front of driveways
  within areas where parking is prohibited by curbs 
painted yellow or No Parking signs
  in a parking space reserved for disabled persons
  in striped access aisles adjacent to a parking space 
reserved for disabled persons
  on the hard surface of a road when no curb is present
  within 15 feet of a fire hydrant
  within 20 feet of an intersection
  in a bike lane
  within 15 feet of the entrance to a fire, ambulance or 
rescue squad station
  within 500 feet of where fire trucks or equipment are 
stopped answering an alarm
  within 50 feet of a railroad crossing
  in such a way that you block or create a hazard for 
other vehicles in a designated traffic lane
Visibility
Most of what you do while driving depends on what you 
see. To be a good driver, you need to know what to look 
for, where to look, and how to adjust to possible problems. 
The single biggest contributor to crashes is failing to identify 
a risk. Always know where other vehicles are positioned 
around you. You must look down the road, to the sides, and 
behind your vehicle. You must also be alert for unexpected 
events, especially pedestrians and bicyclists. You must use 
your headlights at night and at other times when it’s hard to 
see. You must be alert and pay attention to what is going on 
around you. 
Lights
Virginia law requires motorists to use headlights during 
inclement weather such as rain, fog, snow or sleet when 
visibility is reduced to 500 feet. You must use your headlights 
whenever you use your windshield wipers as a result of bad 
weather. Using headlights at all times, including during the day, 
increases your vehicle’s visibility.
Parking uphill 
— no curb  
Turn front 
wheels right
Parking 
downhill — no 
curb Turn front 
wheels right
Parking uphill 
— with curb  
Turn front 
wheels left
Parking 
downhill — with 
curb Turn front 
wheels right