Open Joints: Slow down. Open joints on  
bridges or ramps could cause a motorcyclist 
to lose control of the motorcycle. 
Expansion Joints: This sign is used when a 
joint across lanes creates a bump or is wide 
enough to cause loss of traction in  
wet weather. 
Intersections: An intersection 
is ahead. Be alert for vehicles 
entering the road on which you 
are traveling.
Y Intersection: You must bear either right or 
left ahead. 
T Intersection: The roadway you are traveling 
on ends ahead at a stop sign. You must turn 
right or left after yielding to oncoming traffic 
and pedestrians.
Roundabout: These signs indicate a circular 
intersection with an island in the center 
is ahead. Also called traffic circles, these 
intersections may have one or more lanes. 
Entering traffic must yield the right-of-way 
to traffic already in the circle and travel in a 
counter clockwise direction. 
Right Curve – Side Road: The road ahead 
curves right and a side road joins from the  
left within the curve. Be alert for vehicles 
entering the roadway you are traveling on. 
Sharp Right Turn: Slow down and be 
prepared for a sharp right turn in the  
road ahead. 
Sharp Right and Left Turns: Slow down  
and be prepared for the road ahead to  
turn sharply right, then left.
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 9
Section 2: Signals, Signs and Pavement Markings
Right and Left Curves: The road ahead  
curves right, then left. Slow down.
Right Curve with Safe Speed Indicator:  
The road ahead curves right. Slow down  
to the safe speed indicated. 
 
 
Winding Road: The road ahead winds with 
a series of turns or curves. On all curves, slow 
down for better control.  
 
Low Ground Railroad Crossing: A steep slope 
where the railroad tracks cross the road may 
cause the bottom of low vehicles to get caught 
or drag on the tracks.  
 
Railroad Crossing: Advance warning signs are 
placed before a railroad crossing. These signs 
warn you to look, listen, slow down and be 
prepared to stop for trains or any vehicles using 
the rails. 
Railroad Crossbuck: This sign is a warning of a railroad 
crossing. Look, listen, slow down and be 
prepared to stop for trains or any vehicles 
using the rails. Trains may be approaching 
from either direction. If there is more than one 
track, trains may be approaching from either 
direction on either track. 
 
 
Railroad Crossbuck and Flashing Lights: Flashing lights may 
be used with crossbuck signs. Always stop 
when the light begins to flash and be alert for 
approaching trains. Do not proceed until all 
trains or any other vehicles using the rails have 
passed, the tracks are clear, and the lights are 
no longer flashing. Be especially alert at multi-
track crossings because a second train could 
be approaching from the opposite direction.
Crossbuck, Flashing Lights and Gate: Gates 
are used with flashing light signals at some 
crossings. Stop when the lights begin to flash and 
before the gate lowers. Remain stopped until the 
gates are raised and the lights stop flashing. Do 
not attempt to drive around the 
lowered gate. 