More information about driving safely through a roundabout 
is available at the Virginia Department of Transportation web 
site at http://www.virginiadot.org/info/faq-roundabouts.asp.
Tips for driving safely through a roundabout:
  As you approach the roundabout, slow down; look for 
the street and direction signs. This will help you know 
which exit to take. These signs should be posted along 
the roadside before you reach the roundabout.
  When you arrive at the roundabout, yield the right-of-
way to pedestrians and bicyclists. You also must yield 
to any vehicles already in the roundabout. Sometimes 
your entry point will be controlled by a stop or yield 
sign, or traffic signal. When the way is clear, you may 
enter the roundabout.
  While inside the roundabout, stay in your lane until you 
are ready to exit. Use your vehicle’s right turn signal to 
let drivers around you know what you want to do.
  Do not change lanes or take an exit before checking 
for vehicles that may be continuing through the 
roundabout in the lane next to you or behind you. 
Expect vehicles to be in blind spots you cannot see in 
your rearview or side mirrors. Quickly glance over your 
shoulder and check for any vehicles that may be in your 
blind spot.
Changing Lanes
Before changing lanes, check your side and rearview mirrors 
for traffic approaching you from behind. Then, use your turn 
signal to let other drivers know you plan to change lanes. 
Check for other drivers who also may be moving into the 
same lane. Just before you begin moving into the other lane, 
quickly glance over your shoulder and check for any vehicles 
that may be in your blind spot.
Whether you are changing lanes, passing, entering or exiting a 
highway, always use your turn signals and check traffic to the 
rear and sides. When driving on a multi-lane highway, stay in 
the right lane if you are driving slower than the traffic around 
you. The left lane is for passing only.
When passing, use the left lane and avoid cruising. The left 
lane is for passing only, not cruising.
Passing
When passing another vehicle: 
  check the traffic 
ahead of you, 
behind you and 
in your blind spot 
before you attempt 
to pass. Signal and 
then accelerate to 
pass. Return to the 
right lane as soon 
as you can see the 
front of the passed 
vehicle in your 
rearview mirror.
  it is against the 
law to exceed the 
speed limit as you 
pass.
  complete the pass before you reach a No Passing zone. 
If you’re still in the left lane when you reach the zone, 
you’re breaking the law.
  you may pass on the right if the vehicle you are passing 
has signaled and is making a left turn. Be cautious 
because the vehicle you are passing may be blocking 
your view or blocking the view of other drivers. You 
may not pass on the right if you must drive off the 
pavement or main portion of the roadway to get around 
the other vehicle.
  when approaching or passing a person riding a bicycle, 
moped, or power-assisted bicycle or other device, 
reduce speed and pass at least three feet to the left.
When being passed, don’t speed up. Maintain a steady 
speed or slow down.
Passing is unlawful and unsafe:
  on hills, curves, at intersections or railroad crossings,  
except on roads with two or more lanes of traffic  
moving in the same direction
  off the pavement or on the shoulder of the road
  when a school bus is stopped to load or unload  
passengers on a public road (unless a physical barrier  
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 17
Section 3: Safe Driving
