14 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 3: Safe Driving
Every time you get behind the wheel, you accept 
responsibility for your actions. You must obey Virginia’s traffic 
laws, and ensure the safety of you, your passengers, and other 
motorists, pedestrians and bicyclists on the roadways. 
Hand Position
Sit straight but relaxed and place your hands on the steering 
wheel. If your steering wheel were a clock, your hands should 
be at the 8 o’clock and 4 o’clock positions. Hold the wheel 
with your fingers and thumbs. Avoid gripping it with your 
palms.
Speed Limits
A speed limit is the maximum legal speed you can travel on 
a road under ideal conditions. You may drive slower than 
the speed limit, as long as you don’t impede the normal 
movement of traffic, but it is illegal to drive any faster. By law 
you must drive slower where signs indicate a school zone 
speed limit or work zone speed limit is in effect, and/or if 
conditions such as road construction or bad weather make 
the posted speed unsafe. According to Virginia law, if you are 
driving 20 or more miles per hour (MPH) above the speed 
limit, or over 85 MPH, a law enforcement officer may charge 
you with reckless driving, regardless of the speed limit. It is 
considered a misdemeanor criminal offense if convicted of 
reckless driving. The court may require a fine, suspend your 
driving privilege and/or impose a jail sentence. If the violation 
results in death and the operator’s license was suspended 
or revoked at the time of the offense, it may be considered 
a felony, which carries more serious consequences. You are 
subject to an additional $100 fine if convicted of driving 
between 81 and 85 MPH in a 65-MPH zone. It is illegal to 
use radar detectors in Virginia. 
Section 3:  
Safe Driving
In this section you’ll learn about:
  Hand position    
  Speed limits    
  Stopping    
  Yielding the right-of-way  
  Roundabouts  
  Changing lanes    
  Over-correcting 
  Turning  
  U-turns   
  Turn signals 
  Maintaining a space cushion  
  Searching  
  Blind spots 
  Sharing the road 
  Backing   
  Parking  
  Visibility 
  Lights  
  Hazardous conditions 
  Dangerous driving behaviors  
  Traffic crashes    
  Deer hazards 
  Traffic stops