10 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 2: Signals, Signs and Pavement Markings
Pavement markings, consisting of an X and RR, may be 
painted on the pavement at the approach to some crossings. 
When approaching railroad tracks, be alert. Trains may 
approach the 
crossing at any 
time and from 
either direction. 
Unless you can 
clear the tracks 
completely, never 
start across the 
tracks. Make sure 
there is room for 
your vehicle on 
the other side of 
the tracks before 
proceeding. 
Note: School buses must always stop at railroad crossings, 
even when the lights are not flashing. 
If a dangerous condition exists at a rail crossing, call the 
number listed on the emergency 
sign. This will allow the rail 
company to stop or reroute 
approaching rail traffic until the 
hazard is removed. Be sure to give 
the posted crossing number so 
that the hazard can be identified 
correctly.
If your car stalls on the tracks, don’t hesitate. Get out of the 
car right away and run diagonally away from the tracks in the 
direction of the oncoming train. 
In a work zone, the lives of highway workers depend on 
drivers like you obeying the posted speed limits and avoiding 
distractions. If you are convicted of exceeding the speed limit 
in a highway work zone, you may be fined up to $500. If you 
are convicted of using a handheld communications device in 
a highway work zone, you will be fined $250. Remember, the 
color orange marks a work zone and means slow down and be 
alert.
Rough Road, Bump, or Uneven Lanes: These signs are used 
when certain road conditions, such as loose gravel or road 
construction, affect the roadway surface and create potentially 
difficult 
conditions 
for motorists, 
especially 
motorcyclists.
Road Construction Ahead – Detour: These 
signs indicate a change in the traffic pattern 
or route ahead. Slow down. Unusual or 
potentially dangerous conditions are ahead.    
 
Flashing Arrow Boards: Large flashing arrow 
boards or flashing message signs in work 
zones direct drivers to proceed into different 
traffic lanes and inform them that part of the 
road ahead is closed.
 
Flaggers: Flaggers are highway 
workers who normally wear orange 
or yellow vests, or yellow-green shirts 
or jackets. They use STOP/SLOW 
paddles or red flags to stop or direct 
traffic through the work zone, and 
to let other workers or construction 
vehicles cross the road.
 
Photo Speed Enforcement: This 
sign indicates that automated photo 
enforcement is in place for speeding in 
a work zone. Always obey the posted 
speed limit in a work zone.
 
Traffic Control Devices:  
Barricades, vertical signs, concrete 
barriers, drums and cones are the most 
common devices used to guide drivers 
safely through work zones. When 
driving near the devices, keep your 
vehicle in the middle of the lane and 
obey the posted speed limit. As you 
leave the work zone, stay in your lane 
and maintain your speed. Don’t change 
lanes until you are completely clear of 
the work zone.
