30 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 5: Penalties
Open Alcohol Containers in Vehicles
You may be charged with drinking while operating a motor 
vehicle if you:
  are stopped by law enforcement and you have an open 
container of alcohol in the passenger area and the 
contents have been partially removed, and 
  show signs that you have been drinking 
The passenger area means the area that seats the driver and 
passengers and any area within the driver’s reach, including 
an unlocked glove compartment.
Transporting Children While Under the  
Influence of Alcohol/Drugs
Conviction of any DUI offense involving a juvenile passenger 
(age 17 or younger) in the vehicle at the time of the offense 
carries an additional mandatory five-day jail term plus all 
other fines and jail sentences. You may also be charged 
an additional fine of at least $500 and up to $1,000. A 
second DUI offense with a juvenile in the vehicle carries an 
additional 80-hour community service requirement plus all 
other fines and jail sentences.
Vehicle Impoundment
Your vehicle will be impounded immediately for 30 days if 
you are caught driving after your license has been suspended 
for an alcohol-related offense. The court can impound the 
vehicle for an additional 90 days if you are convicted. 
Also, your vehicle will be impounded by law enforcement if 
you operate a motor vehicle without a license after you have 
previously been convicted of driving without a license. The 
vehicle will remain impounded until you obtain a license or 
for three days, whichever is less.
Restitution
Depending on the laws of the city or county in which you 
are driving, you may be responsible for paying the cost (up 
to $1,000) for law enforcement, emergency medical services, 
fire fighters and rescue personnel who respond to a crash or 
incident resulting from your DUI violation.
Alcohol Related Violations and Penalties  
Involving Persons Under Age 21
Purchasing/Consuming Alcohol:  If you are under age 21, 
you cannot purchase, possess or consume alcohol. If you are 
convicted of driving after illegally consuming alcohol, and 
your BAC was at least .02 percent and less than .08 percent, 
the court penalty will include:
  a suspension of your driving privilege for one year from 
the date of conviction, and
  a minimum mandatory fine of $500, or 
  the requirement that you complete at least 50 hours of 
community service.
  you do not submit the requested insurance policy 
information to verify that you have liability insurance 
coverage
  there is a break in your insurance policy coverage and 
you do not return your license plates to DMV
Refer to dmv.virginia.gov for more detailed information on 
Insurance Monitoring activities by DMV .
Suspensions for Failing to Satisfy Child  
Support-Related Requirements
The Division of Child Support Enforcement will direct DMV 
to suspend your driving privilege if you:
  are late making child support payments by 90 days or 
$5,000, or 
  fail to appear in court or comply with a subpoena, 
summons or warrant related to paternity or child 
support hearings
Refer to the DMV website under Reinstatement for 
information on eligibility for restricted driving privileges and 
requirements to reinstate your driving privilege.
Alcohol and the Law
If you are arrested for drinking and driving, the penalties are 
severe. If the police have probable cause to stop you and 
suspect that you have been drinking or using drugs, they will 
ask you to take a breath or blood test. Under implied consent 
laws, if you operate a motor vehicle on Virginia’s public 
roads, you agree to take a breath test upon request. If you 
are involved in a motor vehicle crash and a law enforcement 
officer has probable cause, you can be arrested for DUI 
within three hours of the crash without a warrant and at any 
location.  
Administrative License Suspension 
If you refuse a breath test or your BAC is .08 percent or 
higher while you are driving and law enforcement charges 
you with driving while under the influence of alcohol/drugs, 
your driving privilege will be automatically suspended:
  for seven days, for a first offense
  for 60 days or until you go to trial, whichever comes 
first, for a second offense
  until the trial, for a third DUI offense
If you are convicted of DUI, the court and DMV will impose 
a suspension/revocation and other penalties in addition to 
the administrative license suspension. If you receive multiple 
DUI convictions, the suspension/revocation periods will run 
consecutively.