18 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 3: Safe Driving
When two vehicles are  
approaching each other 
and signaling to turn left, 
both vehicles should turn in 
front of each other so that 
the passenger sides of the  
vehicles are beside each 
other. 
U-Turns
U-turns are not legal everywhere. Before 
you make a U-turn, check for No U-Turn 
or No Left Turn signs. In business districts, 
cities and towns, U-turns are allowed only 
at intersections. Never make a U-turn on a 
highway. 
When making a U-turn, turn on your left-turn signal, stop, 
and yield for approaching traffic. When the way is clear, 
proceed into the outside or right hand lane traveling in the 
opposite direction.
Turn Signals
When you plan to change lanes, turn, or enter or exit a 
highway, first give the proper turn signal. Using your turn 
signal, which is required by law, communicates your intended 
movement to drivers around you. Develop a good habit and 
use turn signals or hand signals even if no other traffic is on 
the road. 
When you plan to turn, signal three or four seconds, 100 feet, 
ahead of your turn. Be aware that drivers planning to turn into 
your lane may not know exactly where you will turn; drivers 
may pull out in front of you. Be alert.  
After you complete the turn or lane change, be sure the turn 
signal stops flashing.
Right Turn 
Left hand and 
arm pointing 
upward
Slow or Stop 
Left hand and 
arm pointing 
downward
Hand Signals
Left Turn 
Left hand and 
arm pointing 
straight out
or unpaved median separates traffic going in either  
direction) or on a private road
  when a solid line marks the left side of your lane
  when approaching a crosswalk and the vehicle  
ahead of you or the lane next to you is stopped
Over-correcting
Over-correcting occurs when the driver turns the steering 
wheel more sharply than expected, causing the rear wheels of 
the vehicle to slide toward the outside of the turn. This may 
result in the loss of vehicle control. 
Most over-correction crashes are single vehicle crashes and 
are often preventable. A driver should remain alert at all 
times. Reduce speed and use extra caution while driving on 
curved roads. If you veer off the road, curved or straight, do 
not panic. Gradually reduce your speed, look in the direction 
you want to go, slowly steer back onto the roadway.  
Turning
To make a right turn you should be in the lane furthest 
to the right. Signal your intent to turn by using the proper 
turn signal. You should signal at least three or four seconds, 
100 feet, ahead of the turn. Look to your left and right to 
check the intersection for pedestrians and traffic. Then brake 
smoothly before and during the turn. If there is a red traffic 
light or a stop sign at the intersection, come to a complete 
stop before you make the turn. Turn into the lane closest to 
the curb unless pavement markings lead you otherwise, and 
then change lanes if needed. 
To make a left turn you should be in the furthest left lane 
possible, turning into the leftmost lane on the intersecting 
road, unless pavement markings lead you otherwise; or, 
unless multiple left turn lanes are provided. If multiple left 
turn lanes are provided, you should choose the lane that will 
best serve your need once you enter the intersecting road. 
Signal your intent to turn by using the proper turn signal. You 
should signal at least three to four seconds, 100 feet, ahead of 
the turn. Look in all directions, checking the intersection for 
pedestrians and traffic coming from the opposite direction. 
Keep your front wheels pointed straight ahead until you are 
actually going to make the left turn. This prevents you from 
being pushed into oncoming traffic if another vehicle crashes 
into you from behind. When the way is clear, make the left 
turn, yield to any vehicles (including bicycles and pedestrians) 
approaching from the opposite direction.