A broken yellow line 
alongside a solid yellow 
line means that passing is 
allowed from the side of 
the broken line, but not 
from the side of the solid 
line.
Vehicles on the solid 
yellow line side may only 
cross the line to pass 
pedestrians, bicyclists, 
and riders of scooters or 
skateboards, when the 
opposite lane is clear and you can pass safely.
Double solid yellow 
lines mark the center of 
the road and separate 
traffic traveling in two 
different directions. 
Passing is not allowed in 
either direction. You may 
not cross the lines unless 
you are making a left turn 
or passing pedestrians, 
bicyclists, and riders of 
scooters or skateboards, 
when the opposite lane 
is clear and you can pass 
safely.
Broken white lines
separate lanes of traffic 
going in the same 
direction. You may change 
lanes with caution.
Dotted white lines are actually small rectangles in a series 
where each is closely spaced to the next. They are used to 
show lane assignment in intersections and interchanges where 
there might otherwise be a tendency to drift out of a lane or 
an area of intended use. Often they are used to guide two 
turning lanes through the intersection. Dotted white lines 
are also used to denote the opening of a turn lane at an 
intersection and entrance/exit lanes at interchanges.
Many two-lane roads in Virginia do not have lane markings 
to separate the lanes. On an unmarked two-lane road, you 
may pass a slow moving vehicle on the left side if there are no 
signs prohibiting passing. Make sure that the way is clear. 
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 11
Message Boards: You may see portable or permanent message 
boards along roadways. They provide information about traffic, 
road, weather or other hazardous conditions. Always obey any 
directions posted on these message boards. For information 
about road conditions or road construction in advance of your 
trip, visit www.virginiadot.org, www.511virginia.org or call 511.
Rumble Strips Ahead signs warn motorists of 
black or orange strips placed across the travel 
lanes in advance of work zones, including a 
flagger or lane closure. Rumble strips should 
be slowly driven over, not swerved around. 
Slow Moving Vehiclestraveling at 25
MPH or less, such as farm equipment, horse-
drawn vehicles or highway work vehicles, 
must display these signs when using a public 
highway. Be prepared to adjust your speed or 
position when you see a vehicle with one of 
these signs.
Pavement Markings
Road markings guide and warn drivers as well as regulate 
traffic. Markings may be red, yellow or white. They may be 
used alone or in combinations. Each has a different meaning.
Red markings are generally not used; but, some communities 
do use red curbs to indicate no parking zones.
Red reflectors on the pavement show areas not to be entered 
or used. They are positioned on the road surface so that only 
traffic flowing in the wrong direction would observe them.
Yellow center lines mean two-way traffic, flowing in 
opposite directions.
Broken yellow center 
lines mean that passing 
on the left is allowed in 
either direction when 
the way ahead is clear.
Section 2: Signals, Signs and Pavement Markings
