VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL |  7
Rectangle (Regulatory or Guide): 
Vertical signs generally give 
instructions or tell you the law. 
Horizontal signs may give directions 
or information.
Diamond (Warning): These signs warn  
you of special conditions or hazards ahead. 
Slow down and drive with caution. Be ready 
to stop.
Pentagon (School Zone/School Crossing): 
This five-sided shape marks 
school zones and warns you 
about school crossings. T wo 
signs may be used together to 
show the actual location of the 
crosswalk. 
Regulatory signs inform you of the law; 
you must obey their instructions. Remember 
that a red circle with a slash means NO — 
the symbol inside the circle tells you what is 
prohibited. 
Speed Limit: These signs tell you the maximum legal speed 
that you may drive on the road where the sign is posted when 
weather conditions are good. Some roads 
have electronic speed limit signs that change 
based on weather or traffic conditions. During 
rain, snow and ice, you may receive a ticket 
for driving too fast for the conditions even 
if you are driving at or less than the posted 
speed limit. 
Do Not Enter – Wrong Way: These signs mean you cannot 
drive in that direction. If you drive past these 
signs you are going in the 
wrong direction and could 
get into a head-on crash with 
vehicles headed your way. 
Immediately slow down, pull 
over, and cautiously turn around.
One Way: Traffic flows only  
in the direction of the arrow.
No Left Turn: Left turns are against the law.  
In Virginia, U-turns are considered as two left 
turns and are illegal if this sign is posted.
Section 2: Signals, Signs and Pavement Markings
No Right Turn: Right turns are illegal. Do not 
make a right turn when you see this sign.
No U-Turn: U-turns are illegal. Do not make  
a U-turn when you see this sign.
No Turn on Red: You may not turn on the  
red light. Wait for the signal to turn green.
Do Not Pass: This sign marks the beginning  
of a no passing zone. You may not pass cars 
ahead of you in your lane, even if the way is 
clear. 
 
 
Left Turn Yield on Green: This sign is used  
with a traffic signal. It tells you that the traffic 
turning left at a green light does not have the 
right-of-way and must yield to traffic coming 
from the other direction. Stop and look for 
oncoming  traffic, then proceed with caution.
 
Keep Right: A traffic island, median or barrier is 
ahead. Keep to the side indicated by the arrow.
 
 
 
Lane Use Control: These 
signs are used where turns are 
required or where special turning 
movements are permitted for 
specific lanes. Traffic in the lane 
must turn in the direction of  
the arrow.
 
High Occupancy Vehicle: These signs  
indicate lanes reserved for buses and  
vehicles with a driver and one or more 
passengers as specified on the sign.
Disabled Parking: Parking spaces marked  
with these signs are reserved for people with 
disabled parking permits. 
