Maintaining a Space Cushion
Space around your vehicle gives you distance to react in 
emergencies and avoid a crash. Create a space cushion 
around your vehicle by staying in the middle of your lane. 
Make sure there is enough room ahead of your vehicle and 
behind it for other vehicles to pass or stop safely.
Use the two-, three- and four-second rule to determine if 
you are following far enough behind the vehicle ahead of 
you.
 
Following Distance
At these speeds and on dry surfaces, this distance,  
in seconds, allows the driver to steer and brake out  
of a problem area.
2 seconds Under 35 MPH
3 seconds 35-45 MPH
4 seconds 46-70 MPH
* The space cushions above do not work if you’re speeding  
   over 70.
 
Here’s how the following distance 
rule works.
  Glance at the vehicle ahead 
as it passes a fixed object, 
such as an overpass, sign, 
fence, corner or other fixed 
mark.
  Begin counting the seconds 
it takes you to reach the 
same place in the road.
  If you reach the mark before 
you have counted off two, 
three, or four seconds, 
depending on speed, you’re 
following too closely. Slow 
down and increase your 
following distance.
  For bad weather conditions, 
heavy traffic, poor 
pavement or if your vehicle 
is in poor condition, add 
extra seconds to increase 
your following distance.
Drivers need to change following distance when speed or 
road conditions change. Hand response time is close to a 
half second. Foot response time is normally three-quarters 
of a second. This does not take into account any delay in 
perception time as a result of the driver being tired, on 
medication, distracted, etc. Road conditions, speed, driver 
alertness, and the weight of the vehicle you are driving all 
change the ability to stop.
Increase your following distance when driving:
  behind a large vehicle that blocks your vision
  in bad weather or heavy traffic 
  when exiting an expressway
  behind a motorcycle or bicycle 
  when being tailgated
Tailgating is when one driver follows another too closely. 
If you find yourself in this situation, do not brake suddenly. 
If possible, move over to another lane, or gently tap your 
brakes to flash your brake lights and slow down. This should 
encourage the tailgater to pass you or slow down.
Help the driver behind you by maintaining a safe following 
distance and a steady speed. Tap your brakes to warn the 
driver behind you when you plan to slow down or stop.
Searching
Searching means looking at the entire scene for anything that 
might come into your path. As you search the road, avoid  
staring at one thing. Keep your eyes moving and learn to read 
the road and your surroundings.
Looking ahead will help you identify risks early and provide 
you with more time to react. Expert drivers try to focus 
their eyes 20 to 30 seconds ahead. In the city, that equals 
approximately one block. Avoid staring at the middle of the 
road. Scan from side to side, checking for traffic signs and 
signals, cars or people that might be in the road by the time 
you reach them.
Search for clues on the road. Look for exhaust smoke, brake 
or back-up lights and turned wheels on vehicles. Clues like 
these warn that the vehicles may pull into your path. Watch 
for pedestrians, bicyclists and other slow moving vehicles that 
may be in the road ahead.
When driving in rural areas, watch for hidden intersections 
and driveways, curves, hills and different road conditions. 
Watch for other vehicles, especially trucks, oversized and slow-
moving farm vehicles, and bicycles.
Check from left to right and then left again before entering 
an intersection. Whenever you reach a place in the road 
where other cars, people or animals may cross your path, look 
both ways to be sure it is clear. These include intersections, 
crosswalks, shopping centers, construction areas and 
playgrounds. At any intersection, look to the left first, since 
cars coming from the left will be closer to you. Then look to 
the right and take one more quick look to the left before you 
drive through.
Look behind. Use your rearview mirror to check the traffic 
behind you frequently, about every 10 seconds. This will alert 
you if someone is moving up too quickly or tailgating you. 
Check the traffic behind you when changing lanes, backing up, 
slowing down quickly or driving down a long, steep hill. 
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 19
Section 3: Safe Driving
