VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL |  5
In this section you’ll learn about:
  Traffic signals    
  Traffic signs    
  Pavement markings   
  Painted curbs
Traffic signals, signs and  
pavement markings are used for traffic 
control to provide a smooth, orderly flow of traffic. It is 
important to understand and obey them. It is illegal to avoid 
these traffic controls by cutting through a parking lot or field.  
Obey all signs and signals unless directed by a police officer; 
always follow the officer’s direction.
Traffic Signals    
Traffic signals apply to drivers, motorcycle riders, bicyclists, 
moped-riders and pedestrians.
Red light: At a red light, come to a complete stop 
at the stop line or, if there is no stop line, before 
entering the intersection or before reaching the 
crosswalk. Remain stopped as long as the signal is 
red, unless turns are allowed.
Right turn on red: You may turn right while the traffic signal 
displays a red light. Before turning, you must come to a 
complete stop. Look both ways and yield the right-of-way to 
pedestrians and other traffic. Be sure to check for less visible 
vehicles such as motorcycles, bicycles and mopeds. 
Section 2: 
Signals, Signs and  
Pavement Markings
You may not turn right on red if signs are posted at the 
intersection that read “No Turn on Red,” or if a red arrow 
pointing to the right is displayed. 
Left turn on red: You may turn left at a red light if you are on 
a one-way street and turning left onto another one-way street 
while the traffic signal displays a red light. Before turning, you 
must come to a complete stop. Look both ways and yield the 
right-of-way to pedestrians and other traffic. Be sure to check 
for less visible vehicles such as motorcycles, bicycles, and 
mopeds. You may not turn left on red if signs are posted at 
the intersection that read “No Turn on Red,” or if a red arrow 
pointing to the left is displayed. 
Red arrow: A red arrow means you must stop if you intend 
to move in the direction of the arrow. You may not proceed 
in the direction of the arrow as long as the red 
arrow is displayed, unless signs are posted at 
the intersection that read “Right on Red Arrow 
After Stop” or “Left on Red Arrow After Stop.” 
Virginia law prohibits right and left turns at red 
arrow lights. 
Note: If you are traveling in another state, make sure you know 
its laws for right and left turns at red and red arrow lights. 
 
Flashing red light: At a flashing red light, come 
to a complete stop and yield to oncoming 
vehicles and pedestrians. You may go when the 
way is clear. At a railroad crossing, you must 
come to a complete stop even if you don’t see a 
train.
Flashing red arrow: At a flashing red arrow, come to a 
complete stop, yield the right-of-way to vehicles coming from 
the other direction and pedestrians in the intersection, and 
proceed in the direction of the arrow when the way is clear.
Yellow light or arrow: A yellow 
light or arrow are cautions warning 
that the light is about to change. 
If you have not entered the 
intersection, stop; or, if unsafe to 
stop, cautiously go through it. If 
you are already in the intersection, go through it cautiously.  
Do not speed up to beat the light.
Flashing yellow light: A flashing yellow light 
means slow down and proceed with caution. 
Flashing yellow lights are at locations with 
higher-than-normal hazardous conditions.
Flashing yellow arrow: At a flashing yellow arrow, you may 
turn in the direction of the arrow, if the way is clear. Yield 
the right-of-way to vehicles coming from the other direction 
and pedestrians in the intersection. Be sure to check for less 
visible vehicles such as motorcycles, bicycles, and mopeds. If 
a traffic light changes from red to flashing yellow arrow while a 
pedestrian is in the intersection, allow the pedestrian to cross 
the street before turning.  
