VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 3
In this section you’ll learn about:
  Two-part knowledge exam
  Road skills test
  Vision screening
  Vision standards
Tests will include a vision screening and may 
include a two-part knowledge exam and a road skills test. A 
DMV representative will tell you which tests you need to take.
Two-Part Knowledge Exam
You will need to take the knowledge exam if you do not 
hold a valid driver’s license from another U. S. state, 
Canada, Germany, France, or the Republic of Korea. The 
two-part knowledge exam is given on a computer and tests 
your knowledge of traffic signs, motor vehicle laws, and 
safe driving. Exam questions are taken from information in 
this manual. You must correctly answer all ten traffic sign 
questions in part one of the exam before you can take part 
two of the exam. Part two tests your general knowledge 
with multiple choice questions. You must answer at least 80 
percent of these questions correctly to pass part two.
If you fail the exam and you are under age 18, by law you 
must wait a full 15 days before you can retake the exam. For 
example, if you fail the exam on January 1, the earliest you 
can take the exam again is January 17.
Section 1: 
Testing
The exam may be taken only once per business day. An 
audio version of the exam is available and the exam is offered 
in many different languages and American Sign Language. 
Therefore, translators may not be used for tests in offered 
languages.
If you fail the knowledge exam three times, you will not be 
able to take it a fourth time until you complete and pass the 
classroom component of driver education.
You may have the option of completing an 8-hour course 
based on the Virginia Driver’s Manual and approved by DMV 
exclusively for satisfying the three-times-failure requirement. 
This course is available at a driver training school and online. 
Please see the requirements below based on your age.
  Customers age 18 and older may complete a course 
based on the Virginia Driver’s Manual. The completion 
date of the driver’s manual course must be after the 
date that you failed the knowledge exam the third time. 
When you successfully complete the course and give 
DMV your certificate of completion, you can take the 
knowledge exam again.
  Customers younger than 18 may complete the course 
based on the Virginia Driver’s Manual if they have 
previously completed the classroom component of 
driver education. Before you can take this course, you 
must present your certificate of completion for the 
classroom component of driver education to the driver 
training school that will be conducting the driver’s 
manual course. The completion date of the driver’s 
manual course must be after the date that you failed the 
knowledge exam the third time. When you successfully 
complete the course and give DMV your certificate of 
completion, you can take the knowledge exam again.
When testing, you cannot:
  get help while taking the exam
  help another person taking the exam
  try to get test questions or answers before the exam
  give another person exam questions or answers 
  use a cell phone during the exam
A sample knowledge exam is in Section 8 of this manual and 
at dmv.virginia.gov.
Services for Persons With Disabilities
Customers with special needs or who require special help 
with applications or testing should tell a DMV staff member  
at any DMV location. 