32 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 6: License Types
Driver’s License 
A driver’s license allows you to operate any vehicle or 
small truck less than 26,001 pounds that is exempt from 
commercial driver’s license (CDL) requirements. For more 
information about obtaining a driver’s license, refer to 
the publication Obtaining a Virginia Driver’s License or 
Identification Card (DMV 141) available at dmv.virginia.gov  
or DMV customer service centers.
Commercial Driver’s License
A commercial driver’s license (CDL) allows you to operate 
tractor-trailers, passenger buses, tank vehicles, school buses 
for 16 or more occupants (including the driver), or vehicles 
carrying hazardous materials. For more information about 
CDL, refer to the Commercial Driver License Manual (DMV 
60V and DMV 60A) available at dmv.virginia.gov under  
forms or any DMV customer service center.
School Bus Driver’s License
If you wish to operate a school bus designed to carry 15 
occupants (including the driver), you do not need to obtain 
a commercial driver’s license. However, you will need to 
take the commercial driver and school bus tests to obtain the 
school bus endorsement on your driver’s license. You will 
be restricted to driving a bus designed to carry 15 occupants 
(including the driver). This restriction will be printed on your 
license. For more information about licensing requirements 
to operate larger school buses, refer to Commercial Driver 
License Manual (DMV 60V and DMV 60A) available at  
dmv.virginia.gov under forms or any DMV customer service 
center.
International Driver’s License
An international driver’s license is not a valid driver’s 
license and does not allow you to drive. It is only a foreign 
translation of your existing valid driver’s license to be used 
when you are traveling outside of the U.S. These permits 
are issued by your local AAA, except to persons whose  
driving privilege is suspended or revoked.
If you are visiting the U.S. from a foreign country, you  
may drive using your driver’s license issued by your home  
country. Your home country driver’s license should be  
accompanied by a translation of the license.  
International driver’s licenses marketed by private sector 
businesses are not valid and do not allow you to legally 
operate a motor vehicle. Sale of any document claiming to 
be a driver’s license is a Class 1 misdemeanor. 