Unless there is a speed limit sign stating otherwise, the 
maximum speed limit for passenger vehicles and motorcycles 
is 25 MPH for school, business and 
residential areas; 35 MPH for unpaved 
roads and 55 MPH for all other roads. 
Some school zones may have automated 
photo enforcement, as indicated by signs 
with the message “Speed Photo Enforced” 
or similar.
Stopping
You must always stop your vehicle:
  at all stop signs, red traffic lights and flashing red signals
  when entering a street or crossing over a sidewalk from 
a driveway, alley, building or parking lot
  at railroad crossings with flashing signals
  when signaled by flaggers directing traffic
  for pedestrians attempting to cross the street at a 
crosswalk  
  at the direction of a police officer. If you don’t obey a 
law enforcement officer’s signal to stop and the officer 
pursues you and is killed as a direct result of the pursuit, 
you will be guilty of a Class 4 felony. 
  at the scene of a crash in which you are involved
When approaching a stop sign and the car in front of you  
proceeds, stop at the sign and proceed when the way is clear.
Stopping for School Buses
In the following pictures, the red vehicles 
must stop and remain stopped until all  
children are clear of the roadway and the 
bus moves again.
 You must stop for stopped 
     school buses with flashing 
     red lights and an extended 
     stop sign when you 
     approach from any 
     direction on a highway, 
     private road or school 
     driveway. Stop and remain 
     stopped until all persons 
     are clear and the bus 
     moves again.
 You must also stop if the 
     bus is loading or unloading 
     passengers and the signals 
     are not on.
  You do not have to stop if  
     you are traveling in the  
     opposite direction on a  
     roadway with a median or  
     barrier dividing the road  
     and the bus is on the 
     opposite side of the median  
     or barrier. However, be    
     prepared for unexpected  
     actions by persons exiting  
     the school bus. 
 
 
Stopping Distance
Three factors determine the distance that it takes to stop 
your vehicle: perception time, reaction distance and braking 
distance.
Perception time: The time it takes you to recognize a hazard.
Reaction distance: The distance your vehicle travels between 
the time you recognize a problem and the time you apply the 
brakes.
Braking distance: The distance your car travels after you 
apply the brakes. 
Perception time, reaction distance and braking distance are 
affected by weather, visibility, and your mental and physical 
condition. Braking distance is also affected by how fast your 
vehicle is traveling, the condition of your brakes and tires, 
and the pavement condition. For example, wet pavement can 
double your braking distance. 
Section 3: Safe Driving
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 15
Average stopping distance on dry, level pavement.
 
Source: Code of Virginia Section 46.2-880
Antilock Brakes
If your vehicle has antilock brakes, be sure that you 
understand how they work. Check your vehicle owner’s 
manual and practice braking before you go out on the 
road. Remember, never pump antilock brakes.