A waiver of the child restraint law may be granted by 
a licensed physician if using a child restraint would be 
unreasonable due to the child’s weight, physical fitness 
or other medical reasons. The person responsible for 
transporting this child must carry the signed written 
statement by the physician identifying the child and stating 
the grounds for the waiver.
The driver is responsible for making sure that children are 
properly secured. If you are convicted of violating the child 
restraint law, you will be fined $50. A second or subsequent 
offense could mean a $500 penalty.
When traveling with children:
  The safest place to install a child safety seat is in the 
center of the back seat. 
  Numerous child safety seat checks are held in localities 
across Virginia. Attend one of these checks to make 
sure that your child’s safety seat is installed correctly. 
Visit www.vdh.virginia.gov for more information.
  Never hold a child in your lap. In a crash, the 
child may be crushed between your body and the 
dashboard or the back of the seat.
  Make sure that all car doors are securely closed and 
locked before driving. If your car is equipped with 
a child safety lock, turn it on. Don’t allow children 
to play with door handles or locks. If you must open 
a door, pull the vehicle off the road and come to a 
complete stop.
  Never allow children to ride in the luggage area of 
hatchbacks, station wagons or vans.
  Never leave a hatchback open when a child is riding in 
the back seat.
  It is illegal to transport children under age 16 in the 
bed of a pickup truck, even if equipped with a camper 
shell.
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 27
Air Bags
Air bags, when used properly with safety belts, cushion drivers 
and passengers as they move forward in a front-end crash. 
By providing a cushion, the air bag keeps the head, neck and 
chest from hitting the steering column or dashboard, and 
reduces the force of impact.
If your vehicle is equipped with air bags:
  Always buckle up and have all passengers in the vehicle 
buckle up.
  Move your seat back so that you are at least ten inches 
from the steering wheel.
  If your steering wheel is adjustable, tilt it downward. 
This points the air bag toward your chest instead of your 
head and neck.
  Children ages 12 and under are safer buckled up in the 
back seat.
For more information about air bags, including applying for 
an on/off switch, contact the National Highway Traffic Safety 
Administration (NHTSA) at www.nhtsa.dot.gov or toll-free 
hotline at 1-800-424-9393.
Child Safety Seats
Securing a child in a correctly installed child safety seat can 
significantly reduce the possibility of death or injury.
All children under age 8 must be properly secured in a 
child safety seat or booster seat when riding in vehicles 
manufactured after January 1, 1968. Children should ride 
rear facing from birth to 2 years, or as long as the safety seat 
manufacturer allows. If the vehicle does not have a back seat, 
a rear facing child seat may be placed in the front passenger 
seat if the vehicle is not equipped with a passenger side air 
bag or if the passenger air bag is turned off. Children should 
ride facing forward in a child safety seat or booster seat until 
at least age 8, or until they can attain a proper seat belt fit.
Criteria for sitting without a booster seat:
  Lap belt lies snugly across the upper thighs
  Shoulder belt lies snugly across the shoulder and chest
  Tall enough to sit without slouching
  Able to keep knees naturally bent over the edge of the 
vehicle seat
  Able to sit all the way back against the vehicle seat back
  Able to keep feet flat on the floor
  Able to sit this way for entire trip