Hazardous Conditions
Driving becomes hazardous when visibility is reduced or when 
the road surface is covered with rain, snow or ice. Reducing 
your speed should be your first response to decreased visibility 
and dangerous road conditions. Increase your space cushion 
by doubling your normal following distance (refer to the 
Maintaining a Space Cushion section for more information). 
Turn on your headlights.
Night Driving
At sunset, as soon as light begins to fade, turn on your 
headlights to make your vehicle more visible to others. You 
must use headlights from sunset to sunrise. 
Use low-beams when driving in cities and towns, except 
on streets where there is no lighting. Switch to low-beams 
whenever you meet oncoming traffic to avoid blinding the 
other driver. When following, use low-beams whenever you 
are within 200 feet of the vehicle ahead.
Use high-beam headlights on highways, unless another  
vehicle is within 500 feet coming toward you. If the high-
beams of an oncoming car are on, avoid looking directly at 
the bright lights. Glance toward the side of the road, then 
look quickly ahead to determine the other vehicle’s position. 
Keep doing this until you have passed the other vehicle. Even 
if the other driver does not dim his headlights, do not turn on 
your high-beam headlights.
Fog
Fog reflects light and can reflect your own headlights back into 
your eyes. Use low-beam headlights in heavy fog and look 
for road edge markings to guide you. Even light fog reduces 
visibility and your ability to judge distances, so slow down.
Rain
Driving in heavy rain can be as hazardous as driving in fog, 
especially if the wind is blowing. Other vehicles to the rear 
and in blind spot areas are especially difficult to see when it’s 
raining.
Use your low-beam headlights to see and be seen. In light 
rain or drizzle, turn on your windshield wipers to improve 
visibility; using wipers for sprinkles may smear the windshield 
and make it harder to see, so make sure you have windshield 
washer fluid. 
When rain begins, during the first half-hour, roads are more 
likely to be slippery due to oil on the road surface mixing 
with water. Use caution when driving through ponded water, 
and avoid it if possible. Ponded water can cause vehicles to 
hydroplane or otherwise lose control.
Snow
Remove snow and ice from your entire car, including the roof, 
hood and rear of the vehicle, before you start driving. Snow 
and ice left on the car can fly off when the vehicle is moving 
and create a hazard for other motorists. Be sure to clear all of 
your windows, mirrors and front and rear lights of snow or ice 
so you can see and communicate with other drivers.
Equip your car with all-weather snow tires or chains to help 
prevent skidding and reduce stopping distance. 
Driving on packed snow is similar to driving on ice. When you 
brake, apply the brakes gently. Slow down before stopping or 
turning. 
When driving on slippery surfaces and you need to stop, 
release the accelerator and apply brakes gently. You have 
the most traction and control when the front tires are rolling. 
Keeping a slow, steady speed – rather than hard braking – will 
allow you to control your vehicle. 
Watch for ice on bridges and in shady areas. Bridges freeze 
before other road surfaces.
Dangerous Driving Behaviors
Aggressive Driving
This dangerous driving behavior is defined by Virginia law 
as the intent to harass, intimidate, injure or obstruct another 
person while committing one or more traffic offenses such 
as failing to stop or yield the right-of-way, avoiding a traffic 
control device or failing to give way to an overtaking vehicle.
When aggressive drivers are behind the wheel, these 
high-risk drivers take out their anger on other motorists. 
Their frustration levels run high while their concerns for fellow 
motorists run low. They break the law by running stop signs 
and red lights, speeding, tailgating, weaving in and out of 
traffic, passing on the right (including on the shoulder and 
unpaved portions of the road), making improper and unsafe 
lane changes, as well as making hand and facial gestures, 
screaming, honking and flashing their lights.
Protect yourself. If you see an aggressive driver, stay out of the 
way. Don’t challenge the aggressive driver by speeding up or 
trying to out-maneuver him. Avoid eye contact and ignore his 
gestures and shouting.
Remember, if you are convicted of aggressive driving, your 
license could be suspended for ten days or for as long as six 
months.
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 23
Section 3: Safe Driving