26 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 4: Seat Belts, Air Bags and Child Safety Seats
Wearing seat belts, also called safety belts,  
can double your chances of surviving a crash and more than 
double your chances of avoiding serious injury. 
Seat Belts
Under Virginia law, the driver and all passengers, both 
front and rear, must wear safety belts. A driver transporting 
anyone younger than age 18 must ensure that the passenger 
is properly secured in a safety belt, booster seat or child safety 
seat no matter where the child is seated in the vehicle.
Remember to wear your lap belt low on your lap and against 
your thighs. Wear your shoulder belt over your shoulder and 
across your chest. Never wear your shoulder belt behind your 
back or under your arm. Your shoulder and lap belts should 
be snug. Pregnant women are much safer if buckled up by 
wearing the belt as low on the pelvis as possible.
Exception: A waiver of the seat belt requirement may be 
granted by a licensed physician if the use of a safety belt is 
not reasonable due to the driver’s or passenger’s physical or 
medical condition. The person granted the waiver must carry 
the physician’s signed written statement identifying the person 
with the waiver and the reason for the waiver.
Section 4:  
Seat Belts, Air Bags and 
Child Safety Seats
In this section you’ll learn about:
  Seat belts
  Air bags
  Child safety seats
Traffic Stops
If you are stopped by a police officer:
  Remain calm.
  Pull your vehicle to the side of the road in a safe 
location and park. 
  Stay in your vehicle. Do not get out unless the officer 
asks you to.
  Turn on your flashers.
  If you are pulled over at night, turn on your vehicle’s 
interior lights.
  Turn off your engine, radio, and any other device that 
could block communication with the officer.
  Roll down your window so that you can communicate 
with the officer. An officer may approach your vehicle 
on the driver or passenger side for safety reasons. 
  Keep your safety belt fastened and ask your passengers 
to keep their belts fastened.
  Keep your hands in plain view, preferably on the 
steering wheel. Ask your passengers to keep their 
hands in plain view also.
  Do not make any movement that will make the officer 
think you are hiding or reaching for something.
  Carry proper identification: a valid driver’s license, 
proof of vehicle registration and proof of insurance. If 
the officer asks for these documents, tell him where 
they are and reach for them slowly, keeping one hand 
on the steering wheel.
  If the officer is driving an unmarked car or is not in 
uniform, you may ask to see his or her identification.
  Answer the officer’s questions fully and clearly. If you 
disagree with the officer, do not discuss your point of 
view at that time. You will have your chance to make 
your case in court.
  You will be asked to sign the citation. Sign the citation; 
this is not an admission of guilt. Refusal to sign the 
citation may result in your arrest. Or, you may be 
required to go to the police station.