16 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 3: Safe Driving
  When passing stationary vehicles that have activated 
vehicular hazard warning signal flashers, displayed 
caution signs, or been marked with properly lit flares or 
torches, you are required to make a lane change and 
proceed with caution.
  When passing stationary vehicles in the process of trash 
collection on a highway of at least four lanes, change to 
a lane not next to the vehicle, if you can change lanes 
safely. If on a highway of fewer than four lanes or if you 
are unable to change lanes, slow down to 10 miles per 
hour below the posted speed limit and pass at least two 
feet to the left of the vehicle.
  When passing a stationary mail vehicle, proceed 
with caution and maintain a safe speed for highway 
conditions.
  Drivers are required to also change lanes and proceed 
with caution for stationary vehicles displaying hazard 
lights, warning signs, or flares.
  You may not park within 500 feet of where fire trucks or 
equipment are stopped answering an alarm.
Approaching vehicles – same direction
  Never follow an emergency vehicle closer than 500 feet 
when its lights are flashing.
  When police, fire and rescue vehicles or ambulances 
approach you from behind your vehicle using a siren, 
flashing lights or both, you must immediately yield the 
right-of-way. Safely pull over to the right edge of the road 
and stop until the emergency vehicle has passed. 
Approaching vehicles – opposite direction
  When emergency vehicles approach you in the opposite 
lane on an undivided highway, you must pull over to the 
edge of the road and stop until the emergency vehicle 
passes.
These requirements do not apply in highway work zones.
Roundabouts
Roundabouts are circular intersections with 
an island in the center and have one or 
more lanes. Entering traffic must yield the 
right-of-way to pedestrians, and to traffic 
already in the circle. Each road approaching 
the roundabout is marked with a yield sign 
and may also have yield line markings on the pavement. 
Drivers must pay attention and obey the signs. After entering 
the roundabout, drivers must travel in a counter-clockwise 
direction.
When approaching a roundabout, slow down. Use your turn 
signals to indicate where you want to go. If you plan to turn 
right, stay to the right as you enter the roundabout. If you 
plan to go straight, you may stay in either lane (if it is a dual 
lane circular intersection). If you plan to turn left, stay to the 
left as you enter the roundabout. 
Yielding the Right-of-Way
Yield also means to stop if you cannot merge safely into the 
flow of traffic.
Examples of yielding the right-of-way:
  When vehicles from different directions arrive at an 
intersection at different times, the vehicle that arrives 
first goes first.
  When vehicles from different directions arrive at the 
same time at an intersection with no signs or signals, the 
driver on the left must allow the driver on the right to 
go first.
  If the traffic lights at an intersection are not working, 
all vehicles coming to the intersection must stop. The 
driver on the left must yield to the driver on the right. 
  Drivers entering an interstate from an entrance ramp 
must yield the right-of-way to traffic already on the 
highway.
  Drivers entering any intersection or roundabout must 
yield to traffic already in it.
  When entering a roadway from a private road or  
driveway, you must stop and yield to all traffic and 
pedestrians.
  You must yield to pedestrians or bicyclists who are 
crossing a street within a clearly marked crosswalk or at 
an unmarked intersection. Remember that turns on red 
are especially hazardous to pedestrians. Avoid conflict 
with pedestrians and bicyclists; permit them to cross the 
street safely.
  You must yield to funeral processions. Do not cut 
through, join or interfere with a funeral procession.  
Unless led by a police escort, the lead vehicle in a 
funeral procession must obey all traffic signs and signals. 
Other drivers in the procession may follow carefully 
without stopping and may use hazard lights (flashers) to 
indicate they are in the procession.
  You must yield to all military convoys. Never cut 
through or join a military convoy.
Yielding to Vehicles with Flashing Lights
Drivers must take specific actions when they see vehicles with 
flashing or blinking blue, red, amber (yellow) or white lights on 
roadways.
Stationary (Stopped) vehicles
  When approaching a stationary emergency vehicle or 
tow truck with flashing lights on a highway, proceed with 
caution and, if reasonable, with due regard for safety 
and traffic conditions, change to a lane not next to the 
vehicle. If you are unable to safely change lanes, reduce 
your speed and proceed with caution. Violations can 
result in court suspension of your driver’s license and 
demerit points on your driving record.