24 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 3: Safe Driving
  Limit long distance driving. Stop at least every two 
hours for rest.
  Stop at a safe place and take a nap. As little as 10 to 20 
minutes of sleep can make a big difference.
  If possible, drive with a companion and switch drivers 
when necessary. Always let a well-rested person drive. 
  Avoid driving from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m.
Rolling down a window, chewing gum, turning up the radio, 
or consuming caffeine, energy drinks or other stimulants do 
not prevent drowsy driving and are not reliable methods for 
staying awake. Drowsy driving is a type of impaired driving 
and puts the driver and everyone else on the roadway at risk 
for harm. If you observe a drowsy driver, find a safe place to 
stop or ask a passenger to call law enforcement. Be able to 
describe the location, vehicle and actions you observed.
Drunk and Drugged Driving
Legally, drivers age 21 or older are considered to be driving 
under the influence (DUI) if your blood alcohol content 
(BAC) is .08 percent or higher. If your driving is impaired, you 
can be convicted of driving under the influence with a BAC 
lower than .08 percent. If under age 21, you can be convicted 
of illegal consumption of alcohol if your BAC is at least .02 
but less than .08. If your BAC is .08 or higher you could be 
convicted of a DUI. If your driving is impaired because you 
are under the influence of any drug, you may face the same 
penalties as driving under the influence of alcohol.
Researchers estimate that between the hours of 10 PM and 
2 AM three out of every ten drivers are drunk. More than 
one-third of these drivers have been drinking at someone 
else’s home. Nearly 50 percent of the drivers arrested for 
DUI are social to moderate drinkers. Don’t think that it won’t 
happen to you. In your lifetime, there’s a 50-50 chance that 
you’ll be involved in an alcohol-related crash.
Just one alcoholic drink can affect your driving ability  
because even a small amount of alcohol affects the brain’s 
functions – particularly vision, judgment, and coordination.
Because alcohol affects your judgment and driving ability, 
your chances of being in a crash are seven times greater if you 
drive after drinking than if you drive sober.
Twelve ounces of beer is the same as a shot of liquor or a 
five-ounce glass of wine. 
Only time can decrease intoxication. Coffee, cold showers or 
exercise will not sober you up.
Alcohol-related crashes are not accidents. They can be 
prevented! The only way to avoid the risks of drinking and 
driving is to decide before you start drinking that you are not 
going to drive. Remember, alcohol affects judgment. Making 
the decision not to drive is a lot more difficult after one or 
two drinks.
Distracted Driving
Driving requires your full attention. There are many 
distractions that may prevent drivers from focusing on 
driving: changing the music selection/podcast/GPS, talking to 
passengers, observing outside surroundings, eating, using a 
cell phone and more. When on the road, drivers should not 
use cell phones, computers or other distracting devices except 
to report a crash or emergency. Before engaging in distracting 
behavior, pull over and stop the vehicle in a safe location.
Virginia law prohibits drivers from holding cell phones or 
any other wireless communication devices while driving 
except in a driver emergency or the vehicle is lawfully parked 
or stopped. A mobile phone or other telecommunications 
device may be used for navigation, as long as the driver is not 
entering information or holding it while driving. 
Annually, driver distraction accounts for roughly 17 percent 
of all traffic crashes in Virginia. Why is distracted driving so 
deadly? Because while the driver is distracted, the vehicle may 
move into a high risk situation. The driver then loses precious 
seconds before recognizing the situation and must make an 
emergency maneuver. Young distracted drivers are even more 
susceptible. Failure to maintain proper control, following too 
closely, and not yielding the right-of-way are common actions 
of young distracted drivers. Inexperience in handling or 
controlling a vehicle during an emergency situation combined 
with distracted driving (cell phone use, other passengers, eyes 
not on the road, etc.) puts them at greater risk of a crash.
Don’t let this happen to you. Take the following precautions.
  Keep your eyes on the road and your hands on the 
wheel at all times. 
  Set or adjust the controls on the vehicle and other 
devices as soon as you get in the car and before you 
begin driving.
  Do not use a cell phone.
Drowsy Driving
Constant yawning, head nodding, heavy eyelids, difficulty 
remembering the last few miles driven, missing road signs or 
exits, unplanned lane changes, driving off the road or hitting 
rumble strips are all signs of drowsy driving. Driving while you 
are sleepy increases your crash risk as you struggle to process 
complex information coming from different places at once. 
You may make careless driving decisions, have trouble paying 
attention or actually fall asleep while driving.
To avoid drowsy driving:
  Get plenty of quality sleep before a trip.
  Avoid alcoholic beverages and heavy foods.
  Beware of medications that can impair your driving 
ability.