Blind Spots 
Blind spots are danger areas where vehicles around you cannot 
be easily seen. Before driving, adjust your vehicle’s mirrors. 
Make sure the inside rear view mirror frames the entire back 
window. Adjust both side mirrors so you can barely see the 
sides of your vehicle. 
The best way to see a car in your blind spot is by quickly 
turning your head and glancing over your shoulder to ensure 
the way is clear before changing lanes or passing another 
vehicle.
Avoid driving in someone else’s blind spot. This can be just as 
dangerous as not checking your own blind spot. Speed up or 
drop back; but, don’t stay in the other driver’s blind spot.
Sharing the Road
Drivers share the road with many other users: moped and 
motorcycle riders, trucks and buses, recreational vehicles and 
other vehicles of all shapes and sizes. Drivers also share the 
road with vulnerable road users including pedestrians and 
those on bicycles, wheel chairs, skateboards, roller skates, 
scooters, animals and animal-drawn vehicles. It is illegal to 
drive distracted and carelessly around vulnerable road users. 
It is your responsibility to adjust your driving to avoid others’ 
mistakes and assure everyone’s safety.
Pedestrians are especially prone to serious injury when struck.
  Be careful around schools, playgrounds 
and in residential areas where people may 
be playing or crossing the street.
  Be especially aware of pedestrians when 
making a right or left turn. They have 
the right-of-way. Allow pedestrians to 
completely cross the street before beginning your turn.
  Passing at a crosswalk is illegal. You may not see 
pedestrians crossing the road in front of other vehicles.
  Be alert for pedestrians crossing the road. Stop and 
remain stopped until pedestrians have passed the lane in 
which your vehicle is stopped.
  Drivers are required to come to a full stop for a 
pedestrian using a cane or guide dog, as this indicates 
blindness or vision impairment. Remember that the 
elderly and people with disabilities may move slowly.
  Drivers are required to come to a full stop for 
pedestrians who are lawfully crossing a roadway.  
Failing to stop and causing serious bodily damage or 
death can result in a Class 1 misdemeanor.
Bicycles: Bicyclists on a roadway generally has 
the same right-of-way as the driver of a motor 
vehicle. Bicyclists are allowed to ride in the 
center of the lane, when necessary, such as 
when they are about to turn left or when the 
20 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 3: Safe Driving
lane is too narrow to share side-by-side with a car. Bicyclists are 
legally allowed on all public roads except interstates and most 
freeways (limited access highways). Drivers should be aware 
of bicyclists riding in either direction on sidewalks, shared-use 
paths, or two-way separated bike lanes.
Bicyclists are subject to many of the same laws as drivers, 
however, some may not know or obey the rules. Slow down 
when you approach bicyclists. Using marked bicycle lanes is 
prohibited by motor vehicles, including while passing. State 
law requires motorists to pass cyclists with at least three feet of 
clearance. If the lane is not wide enough to allow for a three-
foot clearance, the motorist must change lanes to pass safely. 
Give bicyclists plenty of room when passing and be prepared 
to stop suddenly. Check your blind spots. A bicycle’s small 
size allows it to slip into your blind spot easily. Always check 
for bicyclists before you pull out, change lanes, turn, back up, 
open the door, or proceed through an intersection. 
Motorcycles: More than half of all fatal motorcycle crashes 
involve automobiles. Many crashes are caused by the 
motorist’s failure to see a motorcycle in traffic.
  Look twice for motorcyclists. In more than half of all 
crashes involving motorcycles and automobiles, the 
other driver didn’t see the motorcycle until it was too 
late. Drivers are conditioned to look for four-wheeled 
vehicles; but they don’t expect to see two-wheeled 
vehicles. A motorcycle’s size also makes it difficult to 
see.
  Check your blind spots. A motorcycle’s size allows it 
to slip into your blind spot easily. Always check for 
motorcycles before you pull out, change lanes, turn, 
back up or proceed through an intersection.
  Never tailgate a motorcycle (or any other vehicle). Allow 
yourself plenty of braking distance by adding an extra 
second to the following distance rule. In inclement 
weather, double this distance. 
  Anticipate the motorcyclist’s movements. Although a 
motorcycle is not as wide as the lane, the rider will use 
the entire lane as traffic situations and road conditions 
change. A slight change or debris on the road surface 
can be a major obstacle for a motorcyclist. Expect the 
motorcycle to make sudden moves within the lane. 
Never drive beside a motorcycle in the same lane.
  Yield to motorcycles. The size of a motorcycle can 
cause you to misjudge the motorcycle’s speed and 
distance. Before pulling out into traffic, check twice for 
motorcycles and use extra caution before you pull out 
in front of one.
If you want to obtain a motorcycle learner’s permit or license, 
refer to the Virginia Motorcycle Operator Manual (DMV 2) at 
dmv.virginia.gov.
Light Rail: There is a light rail train system in Norfolk called 
The Tide. Light rail trains share the road with motor vehicles 
and bicyclists, and they intersect with motor vehicle traffic at 
