8 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 2: Signals, Signs and Pavement Markings
Warning signs alert you to possible hazards ahead. Slow 
down and watch for other pavement markings, signs, signals 
or work zones that may follow. 
Advisory Speed: This sign indicates the  
maximum safe speed for a highway exit.
Reduced Speed Limit Ahead: Prepare  
to reduce your speed; the speed limit is 
changing ahead.
Stop Ahead/Yield Ahead: A stop 
sign or yield sign is ahead. Slow 
down and be ready to stop.
Signal Ahead: Traffic signals are 
ahead. Slow down and be ready to stop.
 
No Passing Zone: This sign marks the 
beginning of a no passing zone. You may not 
pass cars ahead of you in your lane, even if  
the way is clear.
 
Merge: Two lanes of traffic moving in the same 
direction are about to become one. Drivers in 
both lanes are responsible for merging safely. 
 
 
Lane Reduction: The right lane ends soon. 
Drivers in the right lane must merge left when 
space opens up. Drivers in the left lane should 
allow other vehicles to merge smoothly.
 
Divided Highway Begins: The highway ahead 
is split into two separate roadways by  
a median or divider and each roadway is  
one-way. Keep right. 
Divided Highway Ends: The highway ahead 
no longer has a median or divider. Traffic goes 
in both directions. Keep right.
Slippery When Wet: When pavement is 
wet, reduce your speed. Do not brake hard 
or change direction suddenly. Increase the 
distance between your car and the one ahead 
of you.
Low Clearance Sign: The overpass ahead has  
a low clearance. Do not proceed if your vehicle 
is taller than the height shown on the sign.     
Hill: A steep grade is ahead. Check your 
brakes.
Deer Crossing: Deer cross the roadway in  
this area. Slow down, be alert and be ready  
to stop. 
 
Horse-Drawn Buggies: Regularly travel in this 
area. Slow down and don’t use the horn. State 
law requires motorists to pass with at least 
three feet of clearance when the way is clear. 
Tractors and Farm Equipment: Regularly 
travel in this area. Be ready to slow down or 
stop. Only pass when the way is clear.
Pedestrian Crossing: Watch for 
people who are walking, riding 
bicycles or other devices entering 
a crosswalk or crossing your path. 
Slow down and be prepared to 
stop. A second sign with an arrow 
may show the actual location of 
the crosswalk. 
Bicycle Crossing/Bike Path: 
Bicycles regularly cross or ride 
beside traffic in this area. Drive 
with caution. A second sign with 
an arrow may show the actual 
location of the bike crossing.  
 
School Zone/School Crossing: 
Watch out for children crossing 
the street or playing. Be ready to 
slow down or stop at school zones 
and surrounding areas. Obey 
the speed limit and signals from 
crossing guards. A second sign 
with an arrow may show the actual location of the sidewalk.
