27 locations along the 7.4 mile route. Stay safe when driving 
around The Tide by obeying the tips below. 
  Pay attention to changing traffic patterns and always 
follow the roadway.
  Never drive around lowered crossing gates.
  Always look both ways before turning across train 
tracks.
  Expect trains on any track at any time.
  Always obey signs and traffic signals. 
  Never stop, pass or shift on train tracks.
  Don’t cross train tracks unless you have enough room to 
cross without stopping and can clear the tracks to a safe 
distance. 
For more info about light rail safety, visit www.gohrt.com or  
call (757) 222-6100. 
Low Speed Vehicles: These electrically- or gas-powered 
four-wheel vehicles have a maximum speed ranging from 
21 to 25 MPH. Low speed vehicles may be operated on 
public roads with speed limits of 35 MPH or less by licensed 
drivers or learner’s permit holders accompanied by a licensed 
driver. Low speed vehicles must comply with all federal 
safety standards and must meet Virginia’s requirements for 
passenger vehicle registration and insurance coverage. Golf 
carts are not classified as low speed vehicles.
Trucks, Tractor-Trailers, Buses and RVs: Trucks, tractor- 
trailers, buses and recreational vehicles (RVs) – including  
motor homes, campers and travel trailers – are longer, higher 
and wider than other vehicles. They accelerate slowly and 
require greater stopping and turning distances. Plus, there are 
danger areas around these vehicles where crashes are more 
likely to occur. These areas are called No-Zones. No-Zones 
on the side, front and rear also include blind spots where your 
car disappears from the driver’s view. Learning the No-Zones 
can save your life.
  Side No-Zones: Trucks, tractor-trailers, buses and RVs 
have big No-Zones on both sides that are dangerous 
because these vehicles must make wide turns. These 
No-Zones or blind 
spots are much 
larger than your 
car’s blind spots. If 
you can’t see the 
driver’s face in his 
side view mirror, 
then he can’t see 
you.
  Rear No-Zone: 
Trucks, tractor-
trailers, buses and 
RVs have huge 
No-Zones directly 
behind them. The 
driver can’t see 
your car behind his vehicle and you can’t see what’s 
happening in traffic ahead of his vehicle. If the truck, 
bus or RV brakes or stops suddenly, you have no place 
to go and could crash into the vehicle’s rear-end. Always 
maintain a safe following distance.
  Front No-Zone: You could get rear-ended by a truck, bus 
or RV if you cut in front too soon after passing the vehicle 
or if you cut in front and then suddenly slow down. The 
truck, bus and RV drivers would be forced to slam on 
their brakes. These vehicles need nearly twice the time 
and room to stop as cars. A truck and its trailer may be as 
long as 65 feet and it may take you more than half a mile 
of clear road to pass. When passing, look for the entire 
front of the truck in your rearview mirror before pulling 
in front. And then, maintain your speed.
  Wide Turns: Trucks, buses and RVs sometimes need to 
swing wide to the left or right to safely make a turn. They 
can’t see the cars directly behind or beside them. In fact, 
their blind spots may stretch up to 20 feet in front of 
the cab and approximately 200 feet behind the vehicle. 
Never try to squeeze between a truck, bus or RV and the 
curb or another vehicle. 
Light to Medium Trailers: These trailers are attached to  
mid-sized cars and trucks with safety chains and a trailer hitch. 
Large side mirrors are generally needed to increase visibility. 
Towing a trailer places additional stress on the vehicle; it takes 
the vehicle twice as long to pass, stop, accelerate and turn. 
Remember the No-Zones described under Trucks,  
Tractor-Trailers and RVs.
Before driving a vehicle with a light to medium trailer 
attached, perform a safety inspection before each trip. Ensure:
  the pin securing the ball mount to the receiver is intact
  the hitch coupler is secured
  safety chains are properly attached
  the electrical plug is properly installed
  brake lights, turn signals, and license plate lights are 
functioning properly.
Before pulling a trailer on public roads, find a location such as 
a vacant parking lot to practice and get the feel for how your 
vehicle and trailer will handle.
When driving a vehicle with a light to medium trailer  
attached:
  always allow for the added length of the trailer when 
you change lanes
  if your trailer starts to sway, slow down
  when backing up, place your hand on the bottom of the 
steering wheel. If you cannot see where you are backing 
up, have someone outside to help guide you. To back 
the trailer to the left, use your left hand to move the 
wheel left. To back the trailer to the right, use your right 
hand to move the wheel to the right.
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 21
Section 3: Safe Driving
