6 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 2: Signals, Signs and Pavement Markings
Green light or arrow: At a green light, you may go if the way 
is clear. At a green arrow, you may go in the direction of the 
arrow if the way is clear. If you 
are turning without a green arrow, 
you must yield the right-of-way 
to vehicles coming from the other 
direction and pedestrians in the 
intersection. Be sure to check for 
less visible vehicles such as motorcycles, bicycles, and mopeds. 
If a traffic light changes from red to green while a pedestrian 
is in the street, allow the pedestrian to cross the street before 
turning.
Out of service signals: When traffic signals are not working 
because of a power outage or other problem and not displaying 
any lights, you are required to stop, proceeding through the 
intersection as though it were an all-way stop. This does not 
apply if a law enforcement officer or other authorized person is 
directing traffic at the intersection, or if portable stop signs are in 
use.
Lane use signals indicate lanes where you can and  
cannot drive during different hours of the day.  
Red X: Never drive in a lane marked with  
a red X signal.
Yellow X or Yellow Diagonal 
Downward Arrow: These signals 
mean that you should move out  
of the lane as soon as safely 
possible.
Green Arrow: You are permitted to drive in a 
lane marked with a green arrow signal.
Left-turn Arrow: You are permitted to enter in a 
lane marked with a one-way or 
two-way arrow only to turn in the 
direction of the arrow.
Pedestrian Hybrid Beacons 
(PHBs): PHBs appear over intersections without stoplights and 
alert drivers when pedestrians are at 
a crosswalk. One yellow light at the 
bottom flashes when a pedestrian 
activates the PHB. Next, the yellow 
light turns solid to alert drivers to 
prepare to stop. Then, the top two 
red lights on the PHB turn solid 
while a walk signal appears at the 
crosswalk, and drivers must stop. 
Lastly, while the walk signal counts 
down for the pedestrians, the PHB’s two red lights alternate 
flashing, telling the driver that if the crosswalk is now clear, they 
may proceed with caution. 
Traffic Signs
The color and shape of a traffic sign communicates 
important information about the sign’s message. In poor 
visibility conditions, such as heavy fog, you may be able to 
make out only the shape of a sign. As you approach a sign and 
while still distant, you may see the color long before you can 
read the message or see the symbol, giving you some advance 
information.
Sign Colors  
Sign colors help you know what the intention of the sign is.
Red used with white conveys stop, yield, do not, and no. Stop 
signs, yield signs, do not enter or wrong way signs, the circle 
and slash in a no turn sign, and the restrictions in a parking sign 
are examples.
Black used with white conveys regulatory information. Speed 
limit, do not pass, no turns are examples where the operation is 
regulated by law and the black and white sign would be found.
Yellow used with black conveys a warning. Curve ahead, 
stop ahead, overhead clearances, slippery when wet, are all 
examples. A specialized class of warning signs uses a strong 
yellow/green color with black to advise of school zone, 
pedestrian and/or bicyclist activities.
Green and white, blue and white, and brown and white signs 
are used to provide helpful information. The green sign is used 
to provide destination types of information, while the blue sign 
is used to inform regarding motorists services. The brown sign is 
used to advise of historical or cultural interests that might exist 
in the area.
Orange and black and pink and black signs are used to 
advise and warn in construction (orange) and incident (pink) 
areas. They are used with black and white signs that convey 
regulations that might exist only because of the construction 
effort or the incident.
Sign Shapes
Octagon (Stop): This eight-sided 
shape always means stop. You 
must come to a complete stop 
at the sign, stop line, pedestrian 
crosswalk or curb. Wait for any 
vehicle or pedestrian to clear the way. At some intersections 
you’ll find a sign beneath the stop sign that reads “ All Way” or 
“4 Way.” At these intersections all vehicles on all roads leading 
into the intersection must stop. If you get to the intersection 
at the same time as other vehicles, the driver on the left must 
yield to the driver on the right.
Triangle (Yield): You must 
slow down as you come to the 
intersection. Be prepared to stop. 
Let any vehicles, pedestrians or 
bicyclists safely pass before you 
proceed.
