VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 33
Whether you are learning to drive 
for the first time, new to Virginia or brushing up on your safe 
driving knowledge, there are additional requirements that all 
Virginia drivers should know.
Receiving License by Mail
You will receive your new driver’s license in the mail. For 
security, DMV does not issue licenses in customer service 
centers.
Address Changes
If you move, you are required to notify DMV within 30 days.  
The postal service will not forward your license to another 
address. If DMV does not have your correct address, the 
postal service will return the license to DMV .
New to Virginia
If you are a new Virginia resident and drive, you must obtain 
a Virginia driver’s license within 60 days of moving here.
Titles, Registrations, License Plates, 
Decals
Title and register your vehicle and obtain Virginia license 
plates within 30 days of moving to Virginia. License plates 
must be displayed on the front and rear of the vehicle. Decals 
indicating the month and year that the registration expires 
must be placed in the designated areas on the plates (except 
for vehicles displaying permanent plates). 
You must have the vehicle registration card with you when 
operating the vehicle. You must also register your vehicle 
in your locality, if required. Check with your city or county 
government.
Safety Inspections
Your vehicle must pass an annual vehicle safety inspection 
and display a valid safety inspection sticker. In certain 
localities, your vehicle also must pass an emissions inspection.  
For more information about Virginia safety inspections, visit 
the Virginia State Police website at www.vsp.virginia.gov.
Tire Safety Inspection
Once every month, or before a long road trip, check your 
tires for wear and damage problems by using the penny test. 
1. Take a penny and hold Abraham Lincoln’s body 
between your thumb and forefinger. 
Section 7:  
Other Important  
Information
In this section you’ll learn about:
  Receiving your license by mail 
  Address changes    
  New to Virginia
  Titles, registrations, license plates, decals
  Safety inspections   
  Insurance requirements   
  Applying to register to vote  
  Organ, eye and tissue donation  