  operating a motor vehicle without a valid driver’s 
license 
  driving while your license is revoked or suspended for a 
non-DUI related conviction
  refusing to take a blood/breath test when charged with 
driving while under the influence of alcohol/drugs
Refer to the DMV website under Reinstating Driving Privileges 
and Restricted Driving Privileges for information on other 
reasons for suspensions/revocations, requirements to reinstate 
your driving privilege, and eligibility for restricted driving 
privileges.
Other DMV Requirements,  
Suspensions and Revocations
Driver Improvement Program
If you are a Virginia resident, DMV is responsible for 
maintaining a driving record of all convictions received from 
the court. When convictions are added to your record, DMV  
assigns demerit points to traffic offenses and moving 
violations. DMV also monitors your driving record to see how 
many demerit points you receive within a 12-month and 
24-month period. Convictions may be assigned three, four or 
six demerit points. For more information, refer to the  
Moving Violations and Points Assessment (DMV 115) 
publication available at dmv.virginia.gov or DMV customer 
service centers. 
Under Age 18:  If you are convicted of a demerit point 
traffic violation (or safety belt/child restraint violation) 
committed when you were under age 18, DMV will require 
that you complete a driver improvement clinic. If you do 
not complete the clinic within 90 days, DMV will suspend 
your driving privilege until you complete the clinic and pay a 
reinstatement fee.
After your second conviction for a demerit point traffic 
violation (or safety belt/child restraint violation) committed 
when you were under age 18, DMV will suspend your driving 
privilege for 90 days. Your third conviction will result in a 
revocation of your driving privilege for one year or until you 
reach age 18, whichever is longer.
Age 18 or 19:  DMV will require you to complete a driver 
improvement clinic if you are convicted of a demerit point or 
safety belt/child restraint violation committed while you were 
age 18 or 19.
Age 18 or Older:  DMV will require you to complete a driver 
improvement clinic if you accumulate 12 demerit points 
within 12 months or 18 points within 24 months. If you do 
not complete the clinic within 90 days, DMV will suspend 
your driving privilege.
VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 29
Section 5: Penalties
If you receive 18 demerit points within 12 months or 24 
points within 24 months, DMV will suspend your driving 
privilege for 90 days and require that you complete a driver 
improvement clinic.
For more detailed information on the Driver Improvement 
Program for juveniles and adults and the actions taken by 
DMV , refer to dmv.virginia.gov or A Different Kind of Crash 
Course (DMV 114) brochure.
Medical Review Program
DMV is responsible for making sure that drivers are able to 
safely operate motor vehicles. When DMV receives a report 
that a driver may have a physical or mental condition that 
affects his ability to drive safely, a medical review of the driver 
may be conducted. DMV is concerned about any condition 
that impairs the driver’s:
  level of consciousness
  perception (vision)
  judgment
  motor skills
Depending upon the situation, DMV may require you 
to submit a medical or vision report completed by your 
physician and/or to pass the two-part knowledge exam and/or 
road skills test.
Once the medical review is completed, DMV will decide 
whether to: 
  suspend your driving privilege 
  restrict your driving privilege 
  require you to submit periodic medical and/or vision 
reports, or
  end the medical review with no other requirements
If DMV suspends your driving privilege as a result of medical 
review action, you will not be required to present legal 
presence proof documents to reinstate your driving privilege 
unless required to do so for another suspension/revocation or 
your license expires. 
Refer to the DMV publication, Medical Fitness for Safe 
Driving (MED 80), for more detailed information on the 
Medical Review Program.
Insurance Monitoring Program 
DMV is responsible for making sure that all owners of vehicles 
with a valid registration comply with the Virginia laws on 
insurance requirements. When registering a motor vehicle, 
you must sign a statement on the registration application that 
you have liability insurance coverage for your motor vehicle, 
or pay the $500 uninsured motor vehicle fee. DMV will 
suspend your driving privilege if: