4 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 1: Testing
Road Skills Test
You will need to take the road skills test if you do not hold 
a valid driver’s license from another U. S. state, Canada, 
Germany, France, the Republic of Korea, or Taiwan. You must 
provide a vehicle for the road skills test (cannot be taken in 
an autocycle). The vehicle must have a valid safety inspection 
sticker, license plates, registration card and decals, working 
brakes, safety belts, horn, lights, turn signals, mirrors and 
speedometer.
To take the road skills test, the DMV examiner will require 
that you either:
  present an acceptable driver’s education certificate of 
completion, or
  complete a behind-the-wheel checklist (DMV form 
CSMA 19 available at dmv.virginia.gov or any DMV 
office) that describes specific driving tasks that you may 
be asked to perform while taking the road skills test. A 
licensed driver will need to certify on the form that he/
she has been with you while you practiced the driving 
tasks and that you have complied with all requirements 
for learner’s permit holders while operating a motor 
vehicle.
For applicants under 18, the road skills test will be given as 
part of the driver education course taken at a public, private 
or commercial driving school. If you are home schooled, refer 
to the Home-Schooled In-Car Driver Education Information 
Sheet (HS 3) for more information about taking the road skills 
test.
Applicants age 18 or older must hold the learner’s permit for 
60 days prior to the first road skills test or complete a course 
of driver’s education at a driver training school approved by 
DMV or the Department of Education. For applicants who 
choose to take driver’s education, the road skills test will be 
administered by the driver training school. For those who opt 
to hold a learner’s permit for 60 days, the road skills test will 
be given by a DMV staff member. The test may be taken only 
once per business day. If you fail the road skills test, you must 
wait two days to take it again. If you fail the road skills test 
at DMV three times, you will not be able to take it a fourth 
time until you complete and pass the in-vehicle part of driver 
education at a driver training school approved by DMV or 
the Department of Education. The completion date for the 
in-vehicle part must be after the date you failed the road skills 
test the third time. Once you successfully complete the  
in-vehicle part and give DMV your certificate of completion, 
you can take the road skills test again.
Vision Screening
To screen your vision, a DMV staff member will ask you to 
look into a machine and read a series of letters or numbers. 
The vision screening is not a medical exam. The screening 
shows whether your vision meets Virginia’s standards to safely 
drive. If you fail the vision screening, you may be asked to 
visit an eye care professional.
If you need to wear glasses or contact lenses to pass the vision 
screening, you must wear them when you drive. Your license 
will display a C for this restriction. To have this restriction 
removed after having laser surgery to correct your vision, you 
must visit a DMV customer service center and pass the vision 
screening without wearing glasses or contact lenses or submit 
a Vision Screening Report (MED 4).
Vision Standards
Driver’s license – unrestricted
  20/40 or better vision in one or both eyes, and
  110 degrees, or better, horizontal vision in one or both 
eyes, or comparable measurement that shows a field of 
vision within this range.
Driving – restricted to daylight hours only
  20/70 or better vision in one or both eyes, and
  70 degrees, or better, horizontal vision. If you have  
vision in only one eye, you must have horizontal vision 
of at least 30 degrees or better when looking toward 
your nose and 40 degrees or better when looking 
toward your temple, or comparable measurement that 
shows a field of vision within this range.
A daylight driving only restricted license permits you to drive 
only during the period of time beginning a half-hour after 
sunrise and ending a half-hour before sunset.
Bioptic telescopic lenses: If you wear bioptic telescopic 
lenses, read the DMV publication Driver’s Licensing 
Information for Bioptic Telescopic Lense Wearers (MED 44) 
available at dmv.virginia.gov or contact DMV  
at (804) 497-7100.