VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL | 31
In this section you’ll learn about:
  Learner’s Permit
  Driver’s License
  Commercial Driver’s License 
  School Bus Driver’s License
  Motorcycle Learner’s Permit
  Motorcycle Driver’s License
  International Driver’s License
Whenever you drive, you must carry a 
valid driver’s license or learner’s permit with you. Any misuse 
of your driver’s license or learner’s permit is illegal. You could 
be fined, sentenced to jail, or your license may be suspended. 
Learner’s Permit
A learner’s permit allows you to operate a motor vehicle 
when a licensed driver at least 21 years of age is seated in the 
front passenger seat. The driver with you must hold a valid 
driver’s license, be alert and able to assist you while you are 
driving. The licensed driver with you may be age 18, 19, or 
20 if he or she is your legal guardian, brother, sister, half-
brother, half-sister, step brother or stepsister. If you are age 
19 or older, you must hold a learner’s permit for 60 days, or 
present a driver’s education certificate of completion to apply 
for a driver’s license. For more information about obtaining 
a learner’s permit, refer to the Parents in the Driver’s Seat 
(DMV 16) publication available at dmv.virginia.gov and  
DMV customer service centers.
Section 6:  
License Types
If you are convicted of driving after illegally consuming 
alcohol and your BAC was .08 percent or higher, you may 
face the same penalties as an adult.
Providing Alcoholic Beverages:  If you provide or sell 
alcoholic beverages to a person under age 21 or someone 
who is intoxicated or ordered by a court to refrain from 
drinking alcohol, you are subject to a fine up to $2,500, 
mandatory suspension of your driver’s license for up to one 
year, and 12 months in jail. 
Misrepresentation of Age:  If you are under age 21 and you 
use or attempt to use a fake ID to establish a false age in an 
attempt to drink or purchase alcohol, you will:
  be fined at least $500 
  be required to perform at least 50 hours of community 
service
  face up to 12 months in jail, and 
  face mandatory suspension of your driver’s license for at 
least six months but not more than one year
  Virginia has a zero tolerance law against underage 
drinking