34 | VIRGINIA DRIVER’S MANUAL
Section 7: Other Important Information
2. Select a point on your tire where the tread appears 
to be lowest and place Lincoln’s head into one of the 
grooves. 
3. If any part of Lincoln’s head is covered by the tread, 
you’re driving with the safe amount of tread. If your 
tread gets below that, your car’s ability to grip the road 
in adverse conditions is greatly reduced.
Prior to entering the vehicle, check tire pressure using a tire 
pressure gauge. The recommended PSI (pounds per square 
inch) is located in the vehicle owner’s manual or the driver’s 
side door jamb of the vehicle. 
Insurance Requirements
To register a vehicle and obtain license plates, you must have 
liability insurance or pay the $500 uninsured motor vehicle 
fee. Insure your vehicle with a company authorized to do 
business in Virginia. At a minimum, your insurance policy 
must provide the following liability insurance coverage:
Insurance companies may factor in their policy premium the 
driving records of any individual of driving age that resides 
within an insured’s household. If you have any questions 
regarding the potential impact a newly licensed driver may 
have on your policy, you may wish to contact your insurance 
agent.
In some cases, liability insurance requirements may be higher. 
Refer to dmv.virginia.gov for more information about DMV’s 
Insurance Verification Program and Financial Responsibility 
Certifications.
Paying the uninsured motor vehicle fee does not provide 
insurance coverage, but it allows you to register and operate 
the vehicle in Virginia for a one-year period.
Insure your Virginia-registered vehicle during the entire 
registration period even if it is not driven or is inoperable. 
Before you cancel your insurance, return the license plates to 
DMV and cancel the registration.
If you are caught driving without insurance and you did not 
pay the uninsured motor vehicle fee, DMV will suspend your 
driving privilege until you:
  pay a $600 noncompliance fee or apply and be 
approved for a payment plan, and
  have your insurance company file a certificate that you 
have a policy with the required coverage limits. You will 
have to file this certificate of insurance for three years 
from the date you regain your driving privileges.
Applying to Register to Vote
You may apply to register to vote or to change your voter 
registration mailing address at any DMV office. Indicate your 
intentions on the voter registration section of the driver’s 
license application. To apply to register to vote in Virginia, you 
must be a U.S. citizen, a resident  of Virginia, and be at least 
18 years old by the next general election. You must have had 
your voting rights restored by a circuit court if you have been 
convicted of a felony or if you have been declared mentally 
incompetent.
To check your voter registration status, contact your local 
registrar or the Department of Elections at 1-800-552-9745  
or TTY 711.
Organ, Eye and Tissue Donation
To sign up to be a donor and save lives, check yes on your 
driver’s license, learners permit, or ID card application. For 
more information about organ, eye, and tissue donation or to 
sign up online, visit www.donatelifevirginia.org.
If you are age 18 or older, your registered decision to be a 
donor will be honored. If you are under age 18, you can 
indicate your wishes to donate by checking yes; by law, your 
parents and guardians must make the final decision. It is 
important for all ages to share your decision to be a donor 
with your friends and family.
Liability Insurance Coverage Requirements
Injury or 
death of one 
person
Injury or 
death of 
two or more 
people
Property 
damage
Policies effective 
before Jan. 1, 
2022
$25,000 $50,000 $20,000
Policies effective 
on or after  
Jan. 1, 2022
$30,000 $60,000 $20,000